README.md, before:

# The Farthest Line-Segment Voronoi Diagram - UROP 2017

Summer internship (UROP: Undergraduate Research Opportunity Program) at
[USI Lugano](http://inf.usi.ch): Implementation of Geometrical Algorithms -
The Farthest Line-Segment Voronoi Diagram (supervised by Prof. Evanthia
Papadopoulou, Ioannis Mantas, Martin Suderland).


## Description

## Setup

### Prerequisites
### Installation



## TODO list

- [x] Read David Mount notes on Computational geometry:
  - [x] Introduction
  - [x] Convex hulls
  - [x] Line segment intersections
  - [x] Polygon triangulation (partially)
  - [x] Halfplane intersection and point-line duality
  - [ ] Linear Programming
  - [x] Voronoi diagrams and Fortune's algorithm
- [x] Read chapter 7 of Computational Geometry book
  - [x] Definitions and properties
  - [x] Computing the Voronoi diagram
  - [ ] Voronoi diagram of line segments (TODO: read again)
  - [x] Farthest-point Voronoi diagram
- [x] Read and understand Aurenhammer 2006 paper
- [ ] Understand how Ipelets work
  - [x] walk through the build process
  - [ ] read documentation
  - [x] compile copy of an ipelet myself
  - [ ] implement simple test ipelet
- [ ] Start implementing algorithm from Aurenhammer paper


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Notes

### Compilation

To compile an own non-shipped program creating `executable` (adapt according to
CGAL version):
```shell
cd /path/to/program
cgal_create_CMakeLists -s executable
cmake -DCGAL_DIR=$HOME/CGAL-4.9.1 .
make
```

To compile an Ipelet copy the file `CMakeLists.txt` from
`.../CGAL-X.X/demo/CGAL_Ipelets/CMakeLists.txt`, then after
`set(CGAL_IPELETS ${CGAL_IPELETS})` delete the other Ipelets and add own. Don't
forget to create a `lua/` folder where to put the `libCGAL_ipeletname.lua`
files.

### CGAL

To see prerequisites: `brew info cgal`
To install: `brew install cgal`
Then download the source code from the official website (get the same version
as in `brew`), extract it where you need it, and:
```shell
cd CGAL-X.Y # version
cmake .
make
```

### Ipe and Ipelets


### C++


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Temporal log

### 2017-07-03 to 2017-07-07

Read lecture notes, book chapter and paper

### 2017-07-10

Copied entire folder `OurGroupIpelets` to `old/OurGroupIpelets_SAVE`. Then
modified original folder; removed old files from `FCVD_HVD_Bisectors`.
Files removed:
  * `bisectors 2.cpp`
  * `bisectors very old.cpp`
  * `bisectors1.cpp`
  * `points-2.ipe`
  * `temp`
  * `inputs/*`

Created new folder TestIpelet to try creting an Ipelet from scratch. The only
needed files are:
  * test.cpp
  * lua/libCGAL_testIpelet.lua
  * CMakeLists.txt (copy of the file in `FCVD_HVD_Bisectors`)

### 2017-07-11
Copied example `simple_triangulation.cpp` ipelet from documentation and tried to
compile it and add it to Ipe. It works.
Took `min_cricle.cpp` example from CGAL documentation, converted it into Ipelet.
Both Ipelets are in `Test_Ipelets/`.

Commit message:

Change name of Ipelet package from "Bisectors" to "FDVD HVD Bisectors". Small changes in README.md.
README.md: Decapitalise first words in TODO list of if they are not chapter names. Add points in TODO list. Add link to Ipelets manual. Edit comment about CGAL version in install instructions, so it's clearer.

README.md, after:

# The Farthest Line-Segment Voronoi Diagram - UROP 2017

Summer internship (UROP: Undergraduate Research Opportunity Program) at
[USI Lugano](http://inf.usi.ch): Implementation of Geometrical Algorithms -
The Farthest Line-Segment Voronoi Diagram (supervised by Prof. Evanthia
Papadopoulou, Ioannis Mantas, Martin Suderland).


## Description

## Setup

### Prerequisites
### Installation



## TODO list

- [x] read David Mount notes on Computational geometry:
  - [x] Introduction
  - [x] Convex hulls
  - [x] Line segment intersections
  - [x] Polygon triangulation (partially)
  - [x] Halfplane intersection and point-line duality
  - [ ] Linear Programming
  - [x] Voronoi diagrams and Fortune's algorithm
- [x] read chapter 7 of Computational Geometry book
  - [x] Definitions and properties
  - [x] Computing the Voronoi diagram
  - [ ] Voronoi diagram of line segments (TODO: read again)
  - [x] Farthest-point Voronoi diagram
- [x] read and understand Aurenhammer 2006 paper
- [ ] understand how Ipelets work
  - [x] walk through the build process
  - [ ] read documentation
  - [x] compile copy of an ipelet myself
  - [x] implement simple test ipelet
- [ ] read into C++ and CGAL
  - [ ] read about C++ generic programming and templates
  - [ ] read parts of CGAL developer manual
  - [ ] read shortly about namespaces, new C++ features
- [ ] start implementing algorithm from Aurenhammer paper


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Notes

### Compilation

To compile an own non-shipped program creating `executable` (adapt according to
CGAL version):
```shell
cd /path/to/program
cgal_create_CMakeLists -s executable
cmake -DCGAL_DIR=$HOME/CGAL-4.9.1 .
make
```

To compile an Ipelet copy the file `CMakeLists.txt` from
`.../CGAL-X.X/demo/CGAL_Ipelets/CMakeLists.txt`, then after
`set(CGAL_IPELETS ${CGAL_IPELETS})` delete the other Ipelets and add own. Don't
forget to create a `lua/` folder where to put the `libCGAL_ipeletname.lua`
files (as described on the
[Ipelets manual](http://ipe.otfried.org/manual/cpp-ipelets.html)).

### CGAL

To see prerequisites: `brew info cgal`
To install: `brew install cgal`
Then download the source code from the official website (get the same version
as in `brew`), extract it where you need it, and:
```shell
cd CGAL-X.Y # e.g. CGAL-4.9.1
cmake .
make
```

### Ipe and Ipelets


### C++


--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Temporal log

### 2017-07-03 to 2017-07-07

Read lecture notes, book chapter and paper

### 2017-07-10

Copied entire folder `OurGroupIpelets` to `old/OurGroupIpelets_SAVE`. Then
modified original folder; removed old files from `FCVD_HVD_Bisectors`.
Files removed:
  * `bisectors 2.cpp`
  * `bisectors very old.cpp`
  * `bisectors1.cpp`
  * `points-2.ipe`
  * `temp`
  * `inputs/*`

Created new folder TestIpelet to try creting an Ipelet from scratch. The only
needed files are:
  * test.cpp
  * lua/libCGAL_testIpelet.lua
  * CMakeLists.txt (copy of the file in `FCVD_HVD_Bisectors`)

### 2017-07-11
Copied example `simple_triangulation.cpp` ipelet from documentation and tried to
compile it and add it to Ipe. It works.
Took `min_cricle.cpp` example from CGAL documentation, converted it into Ipelet.
Both Ipelets are in `Test_Ipelets/`.
